Previously on
Star Trek: Strange New Worlds...
SPOCK:
You saw the future?
PIKE:
I know exactly how and when
my life ends.
And I didn't just see it,
I felt it,
every agonizing second.
Don't throw
your life away, Chris.
I made a choice.
I accepted my fate.
What if you're wrong?
What if your fate
is what you make it?
-I hear you speak 12 languages.
-37.
I found early that,
if I wanted to be understood,
it's best to communicate
in someone's own tongue.
So, I learned them.
HEMMER:
Doctor, I need to check
your emergency
medical transporter
for systems integration
and excess power usage.
Please stop
messing around in here!
Hemmer's diagnostic
shows you're keeping something
in the pattern buffer.
-Rukiya, my daughter.
-Hi, Dad.
M'BENGA:
You can't imagine what it's like
to watch your child
wither away.
And somewhere
is a planet that has
the discovery I need.
PIKE:
Captain's log, stardate 1943.7.
We have arrived
at the Majalan system,
a minor star cluster at the edge
of Federation space.
I was last here ten years ago,
on a rescue mission.
When a pulsar nearly kills you,
you tend not to forget.
Our mission today is
a routine cartographic survey.
I expect it will be
a lot quieter.
-Captain.
-Cadet Uhura.
You all right?
Oh, it's... nothing.
Just a little sore
after combat training.
Ah, right. You're on rotation
with Lieutenant Noonien-Singh
this week.
Lesson one of security?
"A Rigelian tiger
pounces with no warning."
Yeah. [laughs]
I learned that one, all right.
Well, I've come to understand
La'An has a lot to teach.
Although...
keep your eye out
for lesson seven.
What's lesson seven?
[door whooshes open]
[boatswain's whistle blows]
Nice of you to join us, Cadet.
Did you find your break restful?
Super restful,
thanks for asking.
Lesson two of security...
"There are no breaks in security
because threats
never take breaks."
UNA:
Captain, we're receiving
a distress call
from a non-Federation shuttle.
They say they're under attack.
From who?
Scans indicate
a small combat cruiser.
Light armaments.
Non-Federation ID.
Shields up
and take us closer, Erica.
Ensign Shankar,
hail that cruiser.
No response, sir.
PIKE:
Then get me an open channel.
This is Christopher Pike
of the USS Enterprise.
You are committing
an act of aggression.
As the other vessel
has appealed to us for help,
I am obliged
by both Federation law
and my own conscience
to intervene.
I order you to stand down.
Damage?
Negligible. Shield integrity
is only down .02%.
Red alert and evasive maneuvers.
Aye, Captain.
Captain, they...
appear to be making
an attack run at us.
It's the little dog
with the most to prove.
Sir?
It's an expression.
You think you can
take out their weapons
without blowing them
to smithereens?
Charge phasers.
-Minimum capacity.
-Charging.
-They're locking phasers
again, Captain.
-Fire.
UHURA:
Apologies.
Captain, I was trying
to graze them,
but they fired and changed
course right into our weapons.
I think they got the hint.
Firing three times
on a Starfleet ship.
If it wasn't our business
before, it is now.
Sir, shuttle is hailing us,
requesting immediate evacuation.
Their life support systems
are failing.
Prepare to beam them aboard.
Let's go meet our guests.
[door whooshes open]
Deck Six.
Lieutenant Pike?
Alora?
You know her, Captain?
Or should I call you Lieutenant?
PIKE:
Space.
The final frontier.
These are the voyages
of the starshipEnterprise.
Its five-year mission:
to explore strange new worlds...
...to seek out new life
and new civilizations,
to boldly go
where no one has gone before.
♪
PIKE:
Alora and I met years ago.
ALORA:
He rescued me
from another shuttle.
Seems like you have
bad luck with shuttles.
Or good,
depending on how you look at it.
[chuckles]
Well, allow me to welcome
you all to Enterprise.
Your, uh,
new uniform is...
...very yellow.
Oh, it's gold, technically,
because I'm, um... [laughs]
I'm a captain. So...
Well, on behalf of Majalis,
we thank you for your help...
...Captain Pike.
Uh, this is my Number One.
Una... Uh, Lieu-Lieutenant
Commander Una Chin-Riley.
Allow me to take you
to the ready room to debrief.
But first, I must insist
you take us
to your medical facility.
Of course, right away.
Uh, Chief Kyle
will escort you down.
Uh, sorry, are you
the boy's father?
Strictly in a biological sense.
"When King Ridley turned,
"the Wizard Pollux pushed him
-right over the cliff!"
-RUKIYA: Daddy.
You just read me the same exact
chapter twice in a row.
I did?
Darling...
...you know how I've been
keeping your pattern
in the transporter buffer,
so you don't keep
getting sicker?
-Yes.
-Well...
I can't keep you
out of there for very long,
and sometimes it's hard
to keep track of the details.
Sometimes, you put me back in
when I don't notice?
So, how long have you
really been reading to me?
A while.
I've put the transport system
on a timer,
so as to not be disruptive.
When will it...
-[door chimes]
-Come.
Doctor.
We've got people coming in
with possible injuries.
ALORA:
First Servant
is a very special child.
A holy figure.
Chosen at birth by lottery
to embody our maxim:
science, service, sacrifice.
He's forsworn his own family
because everyone on Majalis
is his family.
Okay.
Um, what were you doing
on that moon?
On that moon
is an ancient retreat
for the First Servant's studies.
Elder Gamal and I were
returning him to Majalis
when the ship attacked us
and demanded
we surrender the child.
And you have no idea
who they were?
The closest inhabitable planet
is occupied by
descendants of a long-abandoned
alien colony.
Still, our two worlds
have coexisted
peacefully for centuries.
I believe it is possible
they were after a ransom.
In two days,
I will be overseeing
the First Servant's ascension
to the throne.
It's a sacred ceremony.
If outsiders knew about that,
they would also know
Majalis would pay anything
for the child's safe return.
LA'AN:
We should send a landing party
to investigate the crashed ship.
There is a chance, however
slight, your attackers survived.
An investigation
won't be necessary.
All I ask is you return us
peacefully to Majalis.
An investigation is not only
necessary, it is required.
Captain Pike.
My people didn't
join the Federation.
We've always handled things
for ourselves.
Please, let us handle this.
Starfleet regulations
requires us to investigate
any vessel that attacks us,
with or without your
cooperation, I'm afraid.
I'm sorry.
If you insist,
I'm coming, too.
With or without
your cooperation.
It's showing a slight reduction
in cerebral blood flow.
Consistent with head trauma.
Next time the hull falls on you,
try not to block it
with your head.
-[chuckles]
-[chuckles] Deal.
Do you have anything to eat?
Does this look like a mess hall?
Ah. Please keep
that butcher's knife
away from the First Servant.
-It's a subdermal scalpel.
-I know what it is.
All I needed was for you
to scan him, that's all.
May I?
It's okay, Nurse.
Have at it.
There.
Just wanted to check that
his quantum-bio implants
are functioning.
Thank you.
He has quantum-bio implants?
They didn't show up on my scan.
GAMAL:
That's not surprising,
considering
the state of this abattoir.
This is a state-of-the-art
medical facility.
GAMAL:
Maybe to you.
In my clinic, healing begins
at a subatomic level.
FIRST SERVANT:
It's true. My implants rebuild
biological functions
using quantum mechanics.
What is that?
Back up. You're a doctor.
I was,
until I became the father
of the First Servant.
-Now he's my only patient.
-This scanner is
rudimentary,
but still pretty interesting.
-He's improving.
-GAMAL: I'd still like
to keep him here
for observation.
So, in theory,
your implants
might re-align peptide bonds
within any degraded protein?
At the bare minimum.
M'BENGA:
If this is true, disease
and suffering would be
things of the past.
On Majalis, we have a saying.
"Let the tree that grows
from the roots of sacrifice
lift us where suffering
cannot reach."
We have no disease of any kind.
Life signs?
No readings.
Nothing's in here.
LA'AN:
Let's sweep the area.
Be alert for any surprises
they left behind.
Congratulations.
You just flunked
lesson three of security.
"Let your tricorder
do the investigating."
Some Klingon ships are equipped
with a scuttle system,
even the lightest touch
could trigger
an auto-destruct sequence.
I don't think we're in
any danger of blowing up.
They wiped their data banks.
Luck runs out fast, Cadet.
Next time, be more careful.
Crash site is secure,
Lieutenant Spock.
Looks like they beamed out.
The technology here
is consistent
with the colony
I told you about.
This does not appear to be
a part of the ship's functions.
Do you recognize it?
No.
But I recognize this.
PIKE:
What am I looking at?
An oath coin.
Linnarean Guards
are given one when they swear
to protect the life
of the First Servant.
It's the highest
of our military honors.
Look.
To deface a sacred symbol,
it's forbidden.
I have to entertain
the possibility
that one of our guards
has betrayed his oath
and joined forces with the alien
colonists in trying to kidnap
the First Servant.
The boy is in great danger.
Frankly, so am I.
You can all stay
on the Enterprise
for as long as you need.
I have duties on Majalis.
Peaceful transition of power,
it's the cornerstone
of our society.
Any disruption now
would create widespread panic.
Then I'll send you
with armed escorts.
We're a private people.
Foreign representatives
aren't welcome.
What about a friend?
You can have friends, right?
After your speech
at the opening ceremony,
you have the tree-planting
at the sky garden,
and then you have
the Festival of Gratitude
all evening.
That's quite a schedule.
See why I couldn't stay away?
I need to add something
to the agenda.
Please bring in the guards.
Ready to shake the tree
and see what falls out?
Am I.
Here we go.
Elder Gamal,
a word in private?
Do you recognize this?
No.
My analysis indicates it is
a kind of neural dampener,
designed to reduce the brain's
electrical activity.
We found it in the wreckage
of the ship.
GAMAL:
As I said, I've never seen this.
SPOCK:
Based on its size,
logic suggests your attackers
may have intended
to use it on the boy.
Can I see it?
I'd rather you didn't.
You must be the science officer.
-I am.
-Do you know the speed
of propagation of subspace
radio signals
in long-range communications?
I believe it is roughly
52,000 times
-the speed of light.
-Really?
Wow, that's... super slow.
No wonder you have to use
subspace relays.
At those distances,
the signals would degrade
long before they were received,
even when radially polarized.
I do not know many your age
who grasp radial polarization.
I'm interested in it because
I thought it would be fun to
have a friend across the galaxy.
I once worked on my own
subspace frequency.
I bet I could generate one
by rewiring this biobed.
That would be
an impressive feat,
though Dr. M'Benga might object.
Pardon me, Mr. Spock.
The boy needs his rest.
He has a big day tomorrow.
If you don't mind.
ALORA:
It is the eve of
the First Servant's
ascension to the throne.
In our most sacred time,
it is important
to remind ourselves
of the sanctity of our calling,
so I ask that
you renew your vows.
Present your coins.
Will you uphold
your covenant to Majalis
and faithfully defend the life
of the First Servant?
You hold your oath,
your bond,
in your hand.
Kier, the case is damaged.
Your coin-- what happened?
It's nothing. An accident.
May I take a closer look?
No.
This way.
FEMALE GUARD:
Spread out!
[grunts]
[shouts]
[grunting]
[grunts]
It's not on stun.
Kier,
we just want to talk.
Good.
Now, tell me,
why were you on that ship?
To fulfill my oath,
and to renounce everything
this floating hell stands for.
Long live the First Servant.
[grunting]
[both panting]
[shouts]
Careful, Cadet.
Remember to chew.
Oh, right, you're on rotation
with Lieutenant Noonien-Singh.
Word gets around.
Tell her from me,
you deserve a full hour.
You can tell me yourself,
Lieutenant.
I would, but
I'm, uh, conflict-averse.
[Uhura chuckles]
LA'AN:
Take a look at these data chips.
Are these from the crash site?
I may have liberated them.
But isn't taking them without
permission against protocol?
Lesson six of security:
"Know when to bend the rules."
You're right.
Starfleet wouldn't approve
of how I acquired these,
so I can't put them
through the ship's translator.
Fortunately for me,
I don't have to.
Following proper procedure
would take weeks.
You want me to translate
all of these?
Well, you're a linguist,
aren't you?
I see no signs there was
ever any head trauma.
To reconstitute the molecular
structure of damaged tissue...
[short exhale]
It's revolutionary.
May I ask a hypothetical,
doctor to doctor?
No one's stopping you.
Say I had a patient
with mast cell cygnokemia.
11-year-old female.
Could quantum-bio implants
reverse cellular degranulation,
even in late stages?
On Majalis,
it could be reversed.
And if I ever had
such a patient,
could I send them your way?
I'm afraid not.
It is illegal
to share our technologies
with unaffiliated races.
The Federation
has similar policies.
Not when it comes
to medical interventions.
Perhaps, one day,
an alliance between our worlds
could serve us all.
Sure you don't want to get
checked out by a doctor?
I'm okay, Chris, really.
I just...
I knew him. Kier.
-For years.
-He would've killed you.
-He almost did.
-That's exactly it.
I mean, what if there are others
who feel the same way he did?
That I thought I knew.
I feel like there's
no one I can trust.
I'm gonna put a guard out here,
just to be safe.
You don't have to do that.
I didn't save you from a pulsar
just to let you get killed.
I meant...
you could come in
with me instead.
[Pike and Alora laughing]
PIKE:
I have a confession to make.
That first time we met...
I may have been hitting on you,
-just a little.
-[chuckles]
Oh, you definitely were.
[laughs]
Got to admit...
it's pretty crazy we met again.
It does seem unlikely.
I did think about you
every now and then.
Yeah, me too.
I thought...
"I wonder what ever happened
to that Majalan girl
who couldn't fly a shuttle."
-[laughs]
-Stop it.
I knew how to fly it.
Yeah. I just flew it
into the wrong place.
[laughs]
I don't know, I felt like...
we recognized something
in each other.
It was a shame that we never got
to follow through with that.
Was I wrong?
I mean, I wasn't expecting this.
Mm.
But it's rare to know
what's in your future.
Yeah, it is rare.
Some of us get
a glimpse, though.
What do you mean?
Um...
In ten years,
there's going to be an accident.
It doesn't end well for me.
Even the best
of Federation medicine
won't be able to help me.
How can you know this?
I know.
Our doctors
are capable of things
that you can't imagine.
Only...
Only?
Only you'd...
have to be one of us.
To live here,
our way.
Science, service, sacrifice?
[sighs]
That future is still
very far away.
-Sorry, I've overstepped.
-Mm, no, you didn't.
Thank you for telling me.
You'd be welcome here.
It's just...
...another part
of the future to consider.
You called, Cadet?
You asked for a needle
in a haystack, and I found it.
I translated their dialect
and cross-checked it
the old-fashioned way,
and I know where they're from.
-So, you did the bare minimum
I asked for.
-No.
I also parsed their dialects
and isolated the roots
of their language.
I found more
than what you asked for.
A lot more.
I think we should take this
to the Captain.
-Okay. Well, let me know
what he says.
-Cadet.
It's your work.
You should present it.
If you're sure
of your findings, that is.
I am, sir.
Right.
[children giggling in distance]
Rukiya?
Dad, look what he made.
Sorry, I hope you're not mad.
The grid was just
made of noble gasses
I took from the
atmospheric processor.
They're non-reactive,
so I figured they'd be safe.
Darling.
You shouldn't be up.
Please sit.
[grunts]
I was having fun.
How did you know about her?
You and the Elder talk loud,
and when I couldn't find anyone
with cygnokemia in sickbay,
I checked the places
I'd try to hide in.
Do I have to go back in?
Yes.
But maybe not for much longer.
Goodbye, Rukiya.
I didn't mean
to get you in trouble.
You can't tell anyone about her.
Why not?
[door whooshes open]
I heard some noises.
What's going on?
I was just looking
for a midnight snack.
GAMAL:
Seems more like
you were showing off.
Come on. We're going.
I beamed up.
Someone want to explain to me
why I had to hear this extremely
urgent report in person?
Some information
has come to light
that we thought
you might want to discuss
without the risk
of Minister Alora overhearing.
And what could that
possibly be?
Cadet Uhura?
UHURA:
We matched the language
spoken by the kidnappers
to a non-Federation colony.
Prospect 7.
That's an L-Class planet
a couple light years away.
Very barren, harsh climate.
The colony is barely
above a subsistence level.
Yes.
Alora told us about them.
I suppose it makes sense.
Desperate people
do desperate things.
Here's the surprising part.
This language has common roots
with the dialect
spoken on Majalis.
Linguistically speaking,
it's impossible.
This colony
isn't alien, Captain.
It has to be an offshoot
off Majalis.
At the end of the day,
we have to ask ourselves:
why would anyone leave paradise
for Prospect 7?
-There has to be a reason.
-And if the colony is connected
to Majalis,
why would Elder Gamal
and Minister Alora
tell us otherwise?
Majalans aren't trusting
of outsiders.
That's how Alora and I met.
Her shuttle failed.
It led to an invitation
to join the Federation.
If that accident
had never happened,
I'm not sure our two peoples
would have ever met.
-There must be a reasonable
explanation for this.
-[comm chimes]
M'Benga to Bridge.
Elder Gamal just walked out
with the First Servant.
I couldn't stop them.
They said they were
going back to the planet.
GAMAL:
Captain, good.
Tell your Transporter Chief
that we need to return
to the surface now.
PIKE:
We agreed that the First
Servant was safer here.
If I could ask you
to step down.
With due respect,
I don't believe you're truly
capable of keeping him
safe here.
Who told you
you could beam them down?
No, it wasn't me, Captain.
Someone else must have
locked onto their signals
-while our shields were down.
-What the hell is going on?
See if you can get them back.
Pike to Bridge.
Number One, I need you to scan
for nearby ships.
UNA:
Reading one, Captain.
A combat cruiser
attempting to flee.
Where is the First Servant?
-Red alert.
-[alarm blaring]
[boatswain's whistle blows]
Status.
SPOCK:
Sensors pick up the
First Servant's life signs
on the combat cruiser.
Their deflector shields prevent
us from beaming him back.
-Have we tried hailing them?
-Several times.
-They're ignoring us.
-I'll remind them we're bigger.
Mitchell, deploy
a tractor beam.
We can't let them go to warp.
Targeting and deploying
now, sir.
Sir, they're going
to warp anyway.
They really want to play
tug-of-war with us?
The stress is creating
a catastrophic strain imbalance.
I have to increase our
structural integrity field.
If they still
try to go to warp,
it could destroy the cruiser.
We can't risk harming them.
Disengage.
Now, Mitchell.
How could this happen, Chris?
-You said he was safe.
-It's an unimaginable loss.
If the Federation
can be of any assistance
guiding your people
through it...
There's nothing
to guide us through.
It means our world is over.
Alora, it's a tragedy,
and I understand the symbolic
significance, but...
You don't understand.
If the First Servant
doesn't ascend,
Majalis will
fall out of the sky.
The surface of our planet
is nothing but rivers of lava
and lakes of acid.
We'll be destroyed.
How can any of that
rest on the fate of one child?
Damn it.
Can someone tell me how the hell
that combat cruiser managed
to beam someone off my ship?
UHURA:
I think I can,
Captain.
The girl is deluded.
I'm not.
She is just summarizing facts
and drawing
the logical conclusion.
Isn't that right, Uhura?
Yes, sir. Thank you.
Walk me through it, Cadet.
To beam someone
off the Enterprise
without us knowing about it,
you'd have to lock on
to that signal really fast.
Which means you'd need
full biopatterns
like the ones we keep on file
in sickbay.
So, I checked our records,
and it turns out
Elder Gamal accessed them
right before he took
-the First Servant
to the transporter room.
-GAMAL: I'm his doctor.
I'm entitled
to his medical records.
UHURA:
You didn't just access
his biopattern,
you did a full scan
on yourself
and uploaded that, too.
LA'AN:
I think my promising young cadet
just demonstrated
Lesson Seven of security on you.
Leave no stone unturned.
I usually require cadets
to look under
Mugatan breathing stones
for that one.
-Oh...
-LA'AN: That won't be necessary.
What aren't you
telling us, Gamal?
Now's the time.
-[comm chimes]
-SPOCK: Captain, can you join me
on Deck 17?
I have discovered something
I think you need to see.
Okay.
Escort the Elder to the brig.
[door whooshes open]
The First Servant was a rather
ingenious child, Captain.
He devised a method
of generating
his own subspace channel
on an unused frequency.
I thought there might be
some utility in monitoring it.
And I assume that's why
you dragged me down here.
This is a distress signal
from him.
[beeping]
How?
No one on that combat cruiser
could have survived.
Perhaps he was never
on that combat cruiser.
I believe his kidnappers
transported him
to where the signal originates:
-here, on Enterprise.
-[beeping speeds up]
To be precise...
...right here, Captain.
It's all right.
You're safe now.
Okay? Come with me.
Let's get him to sickbay.
I need to get to
the ascension.
There will be plenty of time
for all that.
No, it's starting now.
Majalis needs me.
Okay.
Captain to Bridge.
Open a channel to Majalis
and tell Minister Alora
I've got some news
she'll want to hear.
-[crowd cheering]
-♪
ALORA:
As the First Servant dedicates
himself to Majalis,
all of Majalis
dedicates itself to him.
It's, uh, it's beautiful.
It wouldn't have happened
without you, Chris.
You saved us.
You-you still haven't explained
how the fate of your planet
could rest on the head
of this child.
It's complicated.
Sacrosanct.
Or why Elder Gamal
would kidnap his own son
and put the fate
of his planet at risk.
I can't speak to the motives
-of one...
-Or why you
failed to mention that
the kidnapping plot
started on a colony
of your people:
Prospect 7.
We begin the procession.
Rejoice.
I shouldn't be in here.
I'm not a Federation citizen.
I've done nothing wrong.
You tampered with
the Enterprise'stransporter,
using it to illegally
transport a minor,
whom you then hid on our ship.
A violation of multiple
Federation laws.
I took my own child
for his safety.
Is that why your associates
had a neural dampening device?
-For his safety?
-Yes.
Its purpose
is to make him unable
to fulfil his duties
as the First Servant.
I want to talk to Captain Pike.
Captain Pike is on Majalis
with the First Servant,
so I'm afraid
you're stuck with me.
You returned him?
Mm.
-So the ceremony has begun?
-By now,
-presumably, yes.
-I was wrong.
I deserve to be in here,
Commander, I know that.
I didn't just...
violate the law of my planet,
I violated my own principles.
My most deeply held beliefs.
Why?
For him.
For my son.
It was unthinkable,
and I-I just needed to save him.
From what?
-[cheering, clamoring]
-♪
MALE:
Thank you!
Where are they taking him?
The Sacred Chamber.
We've never
let an outsider in before,
but the Ruling Council
agreed to let you
be a part of this
because you saved his life.
And also...
because I want you
to be a part of this.
A part of what?
FIRST SERVANT:
Captain.
Come with us.
I want you to be there
when I ascend.
[Alora chuckles]
SHANKAR:
I've-I've tried everything.
The planet's put up some kind
of electromagnetic pulse
that's blocking
our communications.
Mr. Spock,
prepare a landing party
to beam down to the surface.
Negative, Commander.
There is interference
in the planetary atmosphere.
The same energy signature
as the pulse.
You're saying there's
no way to contact the captain
exactly when I need
to talk to him?
Do you freely offer
this gift of self
to the people of Majalis?
With joy and gratitude, I do.
Do you freely choose your fate?
With joy and gratitude...
I...
Oh, my God.
It's okay.
He can see.
PIKE:
It's a child.
Stop it.
[grunting]
Alora, Alora...
Alora, you have to stop this.
He chooses it freely.
And we honor his sacrifice.
What?
ALORA:
Long live the First Servant.
Alora.
Alora, you can't
do this to him. Stop!
You can't.
[grunting]
[whimpers]
What did you do to that boy?
That last thing I want to do
is hurt you.
So I'm your prisoner now?
Of course not.
The ascension is complete.
You may go.
You can go, too.
But I hope you won't.
You're damn right I'm going.
Getting that child
the hell away from that thing.
Even if you could
get into the chamber...
...severing the connection
would only kill him.
Why?
Serving Majalis
is his destiny.
His reason for being.
Without him,
Majalis could not be.
You plugged a kid
into a machine.
What's it gonna do to him?
We don't know.
The machine needs the neural
network of a child to function.
Our founders designed it
that way. We don't know why.
We've hunted for centuries
for alternatives
and found nothing.
It was the purpose
of my research when we met.
Will he suffer?
Yes.
We don'’t pretend otherwise.
We live in gratitude for him.
And when a new First Servant
ascends, we will live for her.
Your whole civilization...
All your... This.
It's all founded
on the suffering of a child.
Can you honestly say
that no child suffers
for the benefit
of your Federation?
That no child lives in poverty
or squalor,
while those who enjoy abundance
look away?
The only difference
is we don't look away.
And because of that,
the suffering is borne
on the back of only one.
That's what makes it
a sacred honor.
That's why I choose our way.
No.
The first chance I get...
...I'm reporting this
to Starfleet.
And what?
We're not a Federation world.
You have no jurisdiction.
Maybe, in the future,
you'll feel differently.
-[communicator chips]
-Now, Number One.
Doctor, a word.
Sorry for the interruption.
It's fine.
I'm told you've requested
transit to Prospect 7.
I used to think they were
a planet of traitors
committed to destroying
our way of life.
And now?
They tried to help me
save my child,
and I failed.
But maybe I could...
...help them save the next one.
I wish you luck.
And I you, Doctor.
Which is why I'm here.
That hypothetical patient
with cygnokemia--
her case stuck with me.
I thought perhaps if I could
take a look at the file,
I could walk you through
the theory behind the treatment.
It's not a cure, but...
But it could be
the first step to one.
♪
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org